
We thought we’d give you an update on the hurricane. We got lucky in Florida. Very, very lucky indeed. We had actually, our original chart, was that it was going to be hitting Florida directly. Maybe I could just see that, Kevin.

It was going to be hitting directly and that would have affected a lot of other states, but that was the original chart, and you see it was going to hit not only Florida, but Georgia, could have…

Was going toward the Gulf. That was what was originally projected, and it took a right turn. And ultimately, hopefully we’re going to be lucky.

It depends on what happens with South Carolina, North Carolina.

Good morning. We have a busy day planned. We’re leaving now for Ellington Air Force Base in Texas. We’re going to spend some time on the floods. We’re going to be briefed on the floods. We’re going to make a big investment so we can try and help Texas with this terrible flooding that they’ve been having. So we’ll be talking to a lot of people and meeting a lot of people. That’s got to be at Ellington Air Force Base. Then we’re going to Houston. Some of you are coming with me, I guess. We’ll be going to Houston, and we’ll be at a very nice big stadium, packed full of people, with Prime Minister Modi of India.

He asked if I’d go with him, and I’ve accepted. And we’re going to have a good time with Prime Minister Modi. We have a… I hear it’s a tremendous crowd. So that’ll be in Houston. And then after that, I’m going to Ohio. Pratt Industries is opening a $1 billion plant. And I told Mr. Pratt, who is a great… Anthony. I told him if he does something really spectacular, I’ll go and cut the ribbon. And he did. He invested $1 billion in Ohio.

So that’s Pratt Industries. They’re great people. It’s a great company, headed by a very great businessman from Australia. So they’re bringing $1 billion into Ohio. And I said I’d go and cut the ribbon, and here it is. We’re ready to cut a ribbon. It’s a great plan. So we look forward to that. Then we’re coming home, and then we have a lot of work at the United Nations during the next week.
Nothing’s ever off the table completely, but I have no intention of meeting with Iran. That doesn’t mean it doesn’t happen. I’m a very flexible person, but we have no intention. It’s not set up. We’re meeting with a lot of leaders. We have about 15 meetings set up, but Iran is not one of them.

We had a great conversation. The conversation I had was largely congratulatory, was largely corruption, all of the corruption taking place, was largely to the fact that we don’t want our people like Vice President Biden and his son creating to the corruption already in Ukraine, and Ukraine’s got a lot of problems. The new president is saying that he’s going to be able to rid the country of corruption, and I said that would be a great thing. We had a great conversation. We had a conversation on many things. In fact, I believe Ukraine put out a statement yesterday saying that we covered many different topics. It was a warm and friendly conversation.

I’ve backed Ukraine from the beginning, but I’m very upset that other countries aren’t doing the same. Germany should be spending much more. France, all of the European Union, should be spending money. Why are we spending money and they’re not? Or at least they spending very little by comparison, so I’m not happy about that.
Oh, I would have no problem with it. Rudy’s a very straight shooter, and Rudy wants to see the same thing as a lot of other people with respect to Ukraine. Ukraine has had a tremendous corruption problem. Somehow they were involved in a lot of different things that took place in our country, and hopefully it can be straightened out. And I will say, the new president… We had a very good talk. The new president got elected based on the fact that he would end corruption. That was probably his number one thing.

Well, this whistleblower, or whoever it was, because it sounds like it’s not a whistleblower, you can’t have that happen to a president of the United States. The conversation by the way, was absolutely perfect. It was a beautiful, warm, nice conversation, and it was put out last night also by Ukraine. But you can’t have people doing this, and you can’t have people doing false alarms like this. And you know, when the president speaks to the head of another country, he has to be able to speak to those people, and those people don’t want to know that they’re being recorded or that you have a stenographer working.

You don’t want to have to hear that. You can’t do that to a president, and you can’t do that to other countries. But with all of that being said, we had a very great conversation, very straight, very honest conversation. I hope they can put it out.

Well, I don’t say anything, but whenever I speak to a foreign leader, I assume there are many people on the line. I don’t assume I’m talking to the leader. Anytime I’m on the phone with a foreign leader, many many people are on the line. Sometimes they’re taping calls, sometimes they’re doing a stenographer, but I also assume many people are on the line from the other side. So if I’m speaking to a country, they also have people on the line. So who would say a thing like what you’re saying? Now I will say this. I said absolutely nothing wrong. It was perfect. Listen to me. Listen. Listen to me.

Listen to me.

Listen to me. I assume many people are on the line. I know that before I make the call, and that’s what you have… Intelligence agencies, everybody listening. That call was a great call. It was a perfect call. A perfect call. What wasn’t perfect is the horrible thing that Joe Biden said. And now we made a lie when he said he never spoke to his son. I mean, give me a break. He’s already said he spoke to his son, and now he said yesterday very firmly, “Who wouldn’t speak to your son? Of course you spoke to your son.”

So he made the mistake of saying he never spoke to his son. He spoke to his son, but more importantly, what he said about the billions of dollars that he wouldn’t give them unless they fired the prosecutor, and then he bragged about how they fired the prosecutor, and then they got the money.

[inaudible 00:06:27] I’m going on the floods today. The floods are very important to me, and climate change. Everything is very important. But today, I’m going to Texas on the flood. Then I’m going to Houston on the big rally. It’s a rally for Prime Minister Modi, and he asked me to do it, of India. And I look forward to doing that.
Well, not only Ukraine. Take a look at China. They took a tremendous amount of money out of China. Now, if they ever took over a China negotiation, he would sell us out. Look at all the money he made in China. The son, he knew nothing. The son is a stiff. He knew nothing, and he’s making hundreds of thousands and millions of dollars, and he did the same thing in Ukraine. He knows nothing. This is a very dishonest thing that Joe Biden did, and then he said he never spoke to his son. Does anybody believe that one?

But then he also said long before that he did speak to his son. So he lied again. But what he said is that he wouldn’t give, I think it was billions of dollars to Ukraine, unless they fired the prosecutor who was looking at his son and his son’s company, the company that his son works with. And that’s a very dishonest thing. And I’m not looking to hurt Biden. I’m not even looking to hold him to it, to be honest, but he said a very bad thing. He said a very foolish thing. Now me, on the other hand, my conversation with the president, the new president of Ukraine, was perfect.

They put out a statement last night. They said the same thing. It was a warm, friendly conversation. There was no quid pro quo. There was nothing. It was a perfect conversation.

Go ahead.
Because I want Germany, and I want France, and I want the European Union to put up money, and I didn’t delay anything. We paid the military aid to the best of my knowledge.

Listen to me. I gave so much more to Ukraine than Obama did. Go back and check your records.
We’re looking at it right now. We’re studying it very hard. It’s an issue that frankly, Congress is wasting all their time on nonsense. We’re studying it very hard. If Congress would ever get back to work, we could work something, but Congress is doing all of this nonsense, this garbage that they’re doing, and I’ll tell you what. They don’t have any time. The Democrats in Congress are doing nothing. I’ll tell you what. They’re going to lose the election. You know why? Because they’re not doing anything very hard with it.
Well, we’re working very hard with some Democrats. The problem I have is that Jerry Nablar, and all these people, they keep wasting time in Congress over nothing. They’re studying nothing. The Mueller Report was perfect. Corey Lewandowski was magnificent. Everybody is perfect. They’re wasting time. They couldn’t accept the Mueller Report. They couldn’t accept that defeat. They can’t now accept the fact that we have the best economy we’ve ever had, and we may be hitting another all time highs in the stock market.

We’re looking at a lot of different things. The problem we find is the Democrats have very little time to talk, because they’re wasting their time. You take a look at what they’re doing. It’s a total waste of time, and they know it. They know it.

Say it?

Well, we’re working with Joe Manchin, the Senator, and we’re working with Pat Toomey, and we have a lot of people working on this, and we’ll be seeing it I say over a period of time. The problem that I have is the Democrats in the House especially, they’re totally unavailable to talk because they’re at hearings all day over something that’s already been won by us. They made up a story. It was a false story. It was a hoax.

And frankly, we have to get to the bottom of how it started, but they are wasting all of their time on a hoax.
Well, we’re working very hard with some Democrats. The problem I have is that Jerry Nablar, and all these people, they keep wasting time in Congress over nothing. They’re studying nothing. The Mueller Report was perfect. Corey Lewandowski was magnificent. Everybody is perfect. They’re wasting time. They couldn’t accept the Mueller Report. They couldn’t accept that defeat. They can’t now accept the fact that we have the best economy we’ve ever had, and we may be hitting another all time highs in the stock market.

We’re looking at a lot of different things. The problem we find is the Democrats have very little time to talk, because they’re wasting their time. You take a look at what they’re doing. It’s a total waste of time, and they know it. They know it.

Say it?

Well, we’re working with Joe Manchin, the Senator, and we’re working with Pat Toomey, and we have a lot of people working on this, and we’ll be seeing it I say over a period of time. The problem that I have is the Democrats in the House especially, they’re totally unavailable to talk because they’re at hearings all day over something that’s already been won by us. They made up a story. It was a false story. It was a hoax.

And frankly, we have to get to the bottom of how it started, but they are wasting all of their time on a hoax.
Well, he’s got a job, and I could do things if I wanted, but I don’t want to do that. We’re so strong despite Jay Powell, but Jay Powell is not helping us. Other countries have lower interest rates. We’re the primest of them all. But he has the rate… Look, it’s very simple. He lifted the rates far too quickly, and he lowered them far too slowly, and it’s a shame. And it’s a shame.
Not too many. Not too many boneheads. We have a great… I’ll tell you what. We really now have a greatest administration, but what we have is a great cabinet. Our cabinet has done a great job.
No. He is a great gentleman, Joe. He’s doing a fantastic job, and I know one thing. He’s only going to do what’s right, but he is doing a fantastic job, and he was only going to do what’s right. But just so you understand, the conversation I had with the president of Ukraine, was absolutely perfect, and people better find out who these people are that are trying to subvert our country, because here we go again. These are bad people.
But the conversation I had with the president of Ukraine was absolutely a 10. It was perfect. Now, what you have to do is look at the corruption on the Democrats’ side. Take a look at how the whole witch hunt started. Now they want to try and start another witch hunt, but unfortunately this one is reverting now to Joe Biden, because he’s done some very bad things. And I’m not even looking to hurt him, to be honest. He needs all the help he can get. I’m not looking to hurt him. I’m not looking to hurt his family. But the corruption and what he said is a terrible thing.


Thank you very much everybody, and good afternoon. Today’s Good Friday and this Sunday, millions of Christians celebrate Easter and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. At this holy time, we pray that God will heal the sick and comfort the heartbroken and bless our heroes. As American families look forward to Easter, we’re reminded that our story ends not in despair, but in triumph and renewal.

Very appropriate, isn’t it? I’d like to provide Americans an update on our ongoing efforts in the war against the invisible enemy. Before I do that, I’ll have a couple of notes. The United States in discussions last night with Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Russia, and in dealing with OPEC nations, we are trying to get Mexico, as the expression goes, over the barrel, and Mexico is committing to do a hundred thousand fewer barrels. President and I spoke last night, we have a great relationship, great friendship. They’re helping us very much at the border.

They have 27,000 soldiers, Mexican soldiers on our border right now, stopping people from coming into our country as our wall goes up. We’re up to about 168 miles of wall. And in speaking with the president, they have a limit. The OPEC nations have agreed to a different limit reduction of about 23%. So what I thought I would do, and I don’t know that it’s going to be accepted, we’ll find out, the United States will help Mexico along and they’ll reimburse us sometime at a later date when they’re prepared to do so.

And we had a great conversation, but we’ll find out how that all works out. As you know, they’re trying to get rid of the glut of oil. There’s a tremendous glut of oil and we don’t want anything to hurt our incredible industry, actually the largest producer in the world now. So we don’t want anything to hurt those jobs, those great jobs in Texas and North Dakota and Oklahoma and everywhere.

We have a tremendous energy, New Mexico, tremendous energy business, and we want to keep those jobs. So we’re working on it. I think eventually it’s going to work out, may work out quicker than what most people thought possible and maybe it won’t, but it’ll work out eventually. Our experts are monitoring the data from every part of our country having to do with the topic that we’re here to discuss.

In the midst of grief and pain, we’re seeing clear signs that our aggressive strategy is saving countless lives. A tremendous progress is being made. Although when you look at some of the numbers, I just spoke with Governor Cuomo, we had a good talk. When you look at those numbers, the numbers of death, people that have died, it’s so horrible. Now, on the other side, you have the numbers of beds being used. We’re just saying are substantially reduced.

That’s usually the sign that it’s heading in the downward curve. So New York, we know where that is, but in the midst of all this grief and this pain, we’re seeing these signs and we’re seeing them very strongly, and a lot of that has to do with the aggressive strategy in saving so many lives. We’re saving so many lives compared to what it could have been. So nobody knows what the number is, but we had a number of 100,000 lives, as many as that is, it’s impossible to even think of it. And that was the low end with a tremendous amount of work and a tremendous amount of… you can call it many different things. Our people had to be extremely strong and brave to be able to put up with what they’ve put up with. But the minimum, if you did this social distancing and every other aspect, and I think I can say 90% maybe even more than that were able to do it.

The minimum number was 100,000 lives and I think we’ll be substantially under that number. Hard to believe that if you had 60,000, you can never be happy, but that’s a lot fewer than we were originally told and thinking. So they said between 100,000 and 220,000 lives on the minimum side and then up to 2.2 million lives if we didn’t do anything.

But it showed just tremendous resolve by the people of this country. So we’ll see what it ends up being, but it looks like we’re headed to a number of substantially below the 100,000 that would be the low mark and I hope that bears out. The situation in Detroit and New Orleans appears to be stabilizing. Detroit is really started to go up and now it is stabilizing and New Orleans is a great place. I have so many friends there. They can’t believe what’s happening, but it’s really stabilized.

I spoke with the governor of Louisiana and as you know, we’re building them additional beds right now, the Army Corps of Engineers and FEMA. And that is going to be done and I hope they’re not going to be very well used because I think they’ve really… I don’t think they’re going to need them or certainly not very many of them. We built them a big hospital of a thousand beds and now we’re in the midst of doing another thousand. I don’t think they’re going to be using very many of them and that’s a good thing.

There was a time, two weeks ago when we said, that’s not going to be nearly enough. We’re going to have to build more, but we wanted to wait to see, and I’m glad we waited. It just looks like they’re doing really well. Louisiana and state of Michigan is doing really much better than we thought. In Washington State, we’ve made enough progress that the governor’s now able to return an army field hospital, so we’re going to take that hospital. We don’t think we need any more hospitals. We built thousands of beds all over the country and we think we’re probably not going to need that hospital anywhere.

If we do, we’re ready to move it to a different location. In New York, we’re seeing hospital admissions declining very substantially. As I said in nationwide, the number of new cases per day is flattening, substantially suggesting that we’re near the peak and our comprehensive strategy is working. Over time, our guidelines to slow the spread are decreasing the rate of new cases very substantially and will result in fewer hospital admissions and we’re seeing that. It’s incredible.

I think with no exceptions, it’s looking like it’s lower. And again that’s because of the people doing what they had to do. Great people and working with elected representatives and the doctors, the nurses and everybody. I mean just everybody has been so amazing.

I was told this morning again, please mention all of those people working in the grocery stores and it’s true, the checkouts and the clerks and the people that are really… and a number of those people have become infected. So we want to thank them and a shout out to them. With the tireless devotion of American doctors and nurses and all of the medical people, we’ve kept our fatality rate very, very low compared to other countries.

My administration’s closely monitoring the data on the viruses impact on our cherished African American communities because they’ve been hit hard and the surgeon general will be sharing more of that information right after we’re finished here. He’ll be coming up and saying exactly what’s happening because it’s really, it’s very troublesome I will tell you that. I’d also like to provide clarity on the important point for many Americans on elective surgeries. Well, we’ve asked hospitals to cancel surgeries and procedures that do not take place at this time, just not to do them now.

The choice to delay any treatment still remains between the patient and their doctor. We’re not advising Americans to postpone medical treatment that their doctor believes should occur now, so it’s different kinds of surgery obviously, but we’re really getting to the point where you can start to think about doing that surgery if necessary, pretty soon, I think pretty soon.

Yesterday I directed Secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdue to expedite aid to American farmers and Secretary Perdue will be using all of the tools at his disposal to develop a program and very quickly of at least $16 billion to provide relief for farmers, ranchers, and producers impacted by the coronavirus. In this time of crisis, we must keep our supply chains moving from the beginning, right from beginning to end and we’re committed to supporting the amazing men and women who produce supply. I did last night a statement on social media and I said, “I have directed Secretary Sonny Perdue to expedite, help to our farmers, especially to the smaller farmers who are very, very badly hurting right now.

I expect Secretary Perdue to use all of the funds and authorities at his disposal to make sure that our food supply is stable and safe and our great farmers are prosperous and continue to be prosperous. We’re working very hard to make sure our food supply chain is sound and plentiful, but we all know that that begins with our farmers, cattlemen, ranchers and producers.”

So we’re going to be working with these small farmers, the big farmers, the cattlemen, the ranchers, all of the producers. We’re going to take care of them. We’re working with them right now. We have a lot of money that was put there through our use of tariffs and other means and we’re going to help out our farmers. And I don’t think… I’ll tell you, I’ve been helping our farmers for a couple of years because they were targeted as you know, by China and others and I think they’re very grateful for what we’ve done. On the medical front, the FDA has issued 47 emergency use authorizations for advancements and testing, new ventilator designs, innovations and personal protective equipment and experimental medicines. And Dr. Hahn’s going to be talking about that. We’ve cut through the red tape to give doctors and patients unprecedented freedom to make their own healthcare decisions, granting access to potential therapies and drugs. Since Monday, we’ve deployed two major shipments of Hydroxychloroquine from our national stockpile and it’s going to various cities. And we are also disposing and getting as quickly as we can, portions of it to the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense. And speaking of the Department of Defense, they’re going to be sending us 10,000,095 masks that they had and we’re in great shape in every way. We’re in great shape with ventilators. We’re in great shape with protective clothing. We have additional plane loads coming in, but we’re not getting any calls from governors at this moment. I can speak, I think for Vice President Pence will be talking in a little while.

We’re getting very few calls from governors or anybody else needing anything. They’re in great shape for this surge that’s coming in, certain areas in particular and that’s a good job. You’ve done a great job on that, Mike, really a great job. I appreciate it. The whole country appreciates it.

More than 2 million coronavirus tests have now been completed and we’re conducting approximately 100,000 more every day. We’re also working to bring blood-based Serology tests to the market as quickly as possible so that Americans can determine whether or not they have already had the virus and potentially have immunity. They have immunity if they’ve had the virus. A lot of them don’t even know if they’ve added. Sometimes it’s brutal. You see the Prime Minister seems to be doing well now I hope, he had a rough go of it and still is, but he’s doing better.

And then some people don’t even know they had it. It could be sniffles, it could be they don’t feel perfect, but they’ve had it and they’re the lucky ones. The NIH, CDC and FDA are currently validating these antibody tests to ensure that they’re accurate and they’re doing that at breakneck speed. I think we can say that doctor, and we’re going to get them approved very quickly, Dr. Hahns.

When validated, we’re confident that the production will scale up to tens of millions of tests very quickly. We are leading the world now in testing by far and we’re going to keep it that way. Other countries are coming to us and they’re wanting to know about our tests and can they buy the tests and can they do whatever they have to do to get the test. And we’re going to make that very soon. We’ll be in a position to make that possible because it’s important for them to have it.

And we’re going to have an announcement on the World Health Organization sometime next week. As you know, we given them approximately $500 million a year and we’re going to be talking about that subject next week. We’ll have a lot to say about it. We’ll hold it. Every American should be proud of what our country is achieved in just a short period of time. The US Military has deployed thousands of personnel to build 23 temporary hospitals with more than 16,000 beds. And we have the potential to build many more if we needed them. We’re all ready to go, but I don’t think we’re going to need them, which is great. Great news. And we built those hospitals in 12 states and the District of Columbia using the Defense Production Act and we used it like a hammer. A lot of the media said, “Oh, we weren’t using it.”

We used it like a hammer to a point where all we had to do is say the words and everybody gave us max and they’ve done a good job. They really have done a good job with few exceptions. And we’ve harnessed the full power of American industry to produce ventilators and other essential supplies. Right now we’re making thousands of ventilators, many of which we won’t need, but we’ll use them in our stockpile and we’ll build that up. We’ll also help build up the stockpiles, which they should have had in the states.

And so we’re working with governors on that and we’ll also help other countries or countries that are calling us for help. They need ventilators and there are no position to build ventilators. We are, we have Ford and General Motors and many, many companies are building ventilators. So we’re going to be helping at a not too distant point, we’re going to be helping quite a few of the countries.

Now we’ve launched Project Airbridge to deliver nearly 300 million pieces of personal protective equipment from and around the globe. We’re also shipping out 60 sterilization systems to 10 different cities that can each sterilize up to 80,000 masks each day and I’m even hearing it can go up to 120,000 masks a day, certain equipment with certain additions. It’s a company in Ohio that makes it, it’s a great company. Great, I hear it’s a great product. Works very well. I asked that question. I said, “How come we have to buy so many masks? Why can’t we sterilize the masks that are being used?” And the answer was, you can. In this case, they say up to 20 times, so we can take a mask, certain types of masks, the N95s in particular, we can sterilize them, make them very clean up to 20 times. That’s a great thing.

In addition, we passed the largest Emergency Economic Relief Package in American history to save the US economy and protect the American worker. As you know, this past week, which was four active days on the stock market, Good Friday today is not included, the markets are closed. In four days, we had the biggest market increase, stock market increase that we’ve had in 50 years. That tells you that there’s a pent up demand, that tells you they want to get back. There’s something good going to happen. I really believe that, there’s something very good going to happen. We have to get back.

So think of it in this horrible period, this horrible, dark period where this monster came in and worked it’s horrible, horrible spell over the world. 184 countries as of this morning, 184 countries. We’ve done well and I guess the market thinks we’ve done well because we had the biggest stock market increase without one day.

We’re talking four days instead of five that we’ve had in 50 years, 50 years. Think of that, more than 50 years actually. In short, the American people have launched the greatest mobilization of our society since World War II, deploying every scientific, governmental, medical, and military resource to defeat the virus. So I want to just start then with, we’re going to answer questions later. We’ll have time, if we have a lot of time today. A lot of people are off as they should be, Good Friday, but so I’ll stick around. We’ll answer questions later. I want to start with Deborah Birx, please. Dr. Birx and you can go over some of the numbers we just looked at and that’d be great. Thank you very much, Deborah.
