For there is a growing apprehension
that existence is a rat-race in a trap: living organisms, including people,
are merely tubes which put things in at one end and let them out at the
other, which both keeps them doing it and in the long run wears them
out. So to keep the farce going, the tubes find ways of making new
tubes, which also put things in at one end and let them out at the other.
At the input end they even develop ganglia of nerves called brains, with
eyes and ears, so that they can more easily scrounge around for things to
swallow. As and when they get enough to eat, they use up their surplus
energy by wiggling in complicated patterns, making all sorts of noises
by blowing air in and out of the input hole, and gathering together in
groups to fight with other groups. In time, the tubes grow such an
abundance of attached appliances that they are hardly recognizable as
mere tubes, and they manage to do this in a staggering variety of forms.
There is a vague rule not to eat tubes of your own form, but in general
there is serious competition as to who is going to be the top type of tube.
All this seems marvelously futile, and yet, when you begin to think
about it, it begins to be more marvelous than futile. Indeed, it seems
extremely odd.

but it is quite
another and much higher thing to be amazed at a rhinoceros or a giraffe,
creatures which do exist and look as if they don't. This feeling of
universal oddity includes a basic and intense wondering about the sense
of things. Why, of all possible worlds, this colossal and apparently
unnecessary multitude of galaxies in a mysteriously curved space-time
continuum, these myriads of differing tube-species playing frantic
games of one-upmanship, these numberless ways of "doing it" from the
elegant architecture of the snow crystal or the diatom to the startling
magnificence of the lyrebird or the peacock?

We do not "come into" this
world; we come out of it, as leaves from a tree. As the ocean "waves,"
the universe "peoples." Every individual is an expression of the whole
realm of nature, a unique action of the total universe. This fact is rarely,
if ever, experienced by most individuals. Even those who know it to be
true in theory do not sense or feel it, but continue to be aware of
themselves as isolated "egos" inside bags of skin.

I
seem to be a brief light that flashes but once in all the aeons of time—a
rare, complicated, and all-too-delicate organism on the fringe of
biological evolution, where the wave of life bursts into individual,
sparkling, and multicolored drops that gleam for a moment only to
vanish forever. Under such conditioning it seems impossible and even
absurd to realize that myself does not reside in the drop alone, but in the
whole surge of energy which ranges from the galaxies to the nuclear
fields in my body. At this level of existence "I" am immeasurably old;
my forms are infinite and their comings and goings are simply the
pulses or vibrations of a single and eternal flow of energy.

The sole means now for the saving of the beings of the planet
Earth would be to implant again into their presences a new organ
... of such properties that every one of these unfortunates during
the process of existence should constantly sense and be cognizant
of the inevitability of his own death as well as the death of
everyone upon whom his eyes or attention rests.
Only such a sensation and such a cognizance can now destroy
the egoism completely crystallized in them.
As we now regard death this reads like a prescription for a nightmare.
But the constant awareness of death shows the world to be as flowing
and diaphanous as the filmy patterns of blue smoke in the air—that
there really is nothing to clutch and no one to clutch it. This is
depressing only so long as there remains a notion that there might be
some way of fixing it, of putting it off just once more, or hoping that
one has, or is, some kind of ego-soul that will survive bodily
dissolution. (I am not saying that there is no personal continuity beyond
death—only that believing in it keeps us in bondage.)

 The skin is always considered as a wall, barrier, or boundary
which definitively separates oneself from the world—despite the fact
that it is covered with pores breathing air and with nerve-ends relaying
information. The skin informs us just as much as it outforms; it is as
much a bridge as a barrier.

 Thus the soul is not in the body, but the body in the
soul, and the soul is the entire network of relationships and processes
which make up your environment, and apart from which you are
nothing. A scientific astrology, if it could ever be worked out, would
have to be a thorough description of the individual's total
environment—social, biological, botanical, meteorological, and
astronomical—throughout every moment of his life

But we can kill him just as
effectively by separating him from his proper environment. This implies
that the only true atom is the universe—that total system of
interdependent "thing-events" which can be separated from each other
only in name.







